# tutorial-clarity
main you tube tutorial guidance app
tutorial clarity is an app, primarily aimed at the elderly and computer newbies, but useful for all.
This app will provide a suite of tools to deal with common YouTube irritations, and make it easier to understand and learn from tutorials
I have identified several difficulties, which I will first explain, and list the desired actions within the app to solve each problem.
In as much as is possible, all code work should be contained within the app, so that conflicts with YT operations will be kept to a minimum.
The basic layout, when the app is open, shows the desired video taking up most of the viewing area. A large blue button, labeled MENU shall appear off screen, to the top, right of the monitor. This button, when clicked, will open up a drop down list of all available features of the app. These shall be collapsed in a normal state until the user clicks on a particular function. At this time, the feature button will expand with a display of all controls for that feature. The user can click on the desired control, and act upon it. When the user has finished, they can collapse the feature in order to make the interface as uncluttered as possible. 
When the user has the app active, any time that they log in to YouTube, a TC logo will show that they have access to its, functionality. If the user wants to watch a particular video With access to all of our tools, they will copy the video URL, and click on the TC logo. At this time, they will be taken to a landing page, where they will be able to paste the URL, and click a Watch Enhanced button, which will take them inside the app.
Even before they enter our app, they will have access to our first benefit. When scrolling through YouTube's offerings of videos, they might see something that interests them, but they want to see if there is something more interesting in the listings later on. They intend to come back to this first video. They end up watching something else and decide to return to the first video, but YouTube no longer shows it as an option. We solve this with our SURF option. While they are focused on the video, but have not selected it yet, they can click alt-space, and that will save that video to a list, under menu/surf, which they can click for viewing in the future. These videos will be listed on the day that they are selected, and the list will cover seven days. If, later in the week, they don't find any offerings of interest to them, they can turn to this list of things of interest to select something to watch. This feature, SURF, shall be the first listing in the collapsed MENU list.               SPACE BAR. This is very important for use of other features as we come to them. The user shall be able to use the space bar to start and pause the video, as well as the accompaning scroll, which shall be described later. When the video is paused, the last frame on the screen shall be displayed without any overlays blocking the view, in order that the user can study it at their own pace, so that the information being presented will make sense to them. It is important that the SPACE BAR be utilized for this because it is the largest key on the keyboard and is easier for someone with motor control issues than to try to grab a mouse and point it, by which time the point of interest will have passed. SPACE BAR shall be the second feature on the MENU list.
PROGRESS BAR. We shall provide our own progress bar, seperate from YouTube's, so that we can impose some of our own functionality on it. The progress bar shall be shown on the bottom of the screen, with a countdown timer at the left end, and an indicator of the current payback speed on the right end. the Progress Bar shall be next in our list of menu features, and it can be toggled to be shown or hidden, as the user wishes.
SCROLL. A written version of what the presenter is saying shall scroll across the bottom of the screen, in sync with the audio presentation. The height of the scroll bar, and consequently the size of the text contained within it, shall be adjustable for people with poor vision. The user should be able to relocate the scroll bar to whatever position they desire. When the video is paused, this scroll shall pause also.
MUTE. A mute/unmute toggle shall be offered in MENU, as well as a volume adjustment slider.
In many tutorials, unfamiliar, or technical terms are often used Our DEFINITION function will allow the user to pause the scroll bar and highlight the word or phrase that they don't understand. An explaination of the meaning will then popup on the screen and remain there until the user either closes the definition bubble, or restarts the video play.
I will no longer state that each feature that I describe should be listed in the MENU drop down. Just assume that it should.
ZOOM. While the video is paused, the user shall be able to zoom in on the screen, similar to pinch control on a phone, and move the cursor around within the zoom. Clicking upon words thre shall trigger the DEFINITION feature. Restarting the video shall return the screen to normal size.
CHAPTERS. If a video contains them, we shll provide a time stamped list of chapters, as well as titles if they are available. Clicking on a chapter shall jump the user directly to that play point.
BOOKMARKS. The user shall be able to create a bookmark in one of two ways, either by pressing b, or by clicking at the desired point on the progress bar. When either of these actions are initiated, a series things take place. First, playback is paused to allow the user to make a note if desired. A small nudge will popup asking if they wish to add a note, and an x to close the nudge if they do not.If they click on the nudge, a larger window will open up where they can input their notes. This note and timestamp shall be added to the list of bookmarks in Menu. Closing note nudge resumes playback. A bookmark will be indicated by a 1/2 inch spike on the progress bar, with noted time stamp. Within MENU each bookmark shall have the ability to be set as the start or end of a playback loop. User shall be able to loop between any two bookmarks. Also each bookmark shall be able to be erased individually, or by a global close which will remove all bookmarks.
PLAYBACK SPEED. Some presenters talk very fast, so we will provide the means to slow down the presentation. Also, sometimes the user has already seen the video and wants to fast forward to  find a particular bit of information, or speed toward the end to see if that leader was just click bait. We provide that ability by a series of speed boxes which can be slected: .5x, .75x, 1x, 1.5x, and 2x. The selected speed shall be highlightd, as well as displayed at the right end of the progress bar.
RESUME SESSION. Sometimes the user will have to stop watching, for whatever reason. Then when they return, possibly several days later, YouTube may no longer offer that video. We solve that problem. If you have watched a video for at least 10 seconds, and leave before the end, that departure point will be saved as a RESUME SESSION point. The next time that the user rejoins YouTube, regardless of what video they are watching, a nudge popsup asking if they wish to resume the last session on ...video. If not. they just click th x to close, or if they click on the nudge, they will be taken to the proper video at the point where they left off. The last ten save session points will be listed in MENU. If an eleventh is to be created, the oldest will be deleted.
CLEAR AUDIO. Some presenters speak with very pronounced accents. Some people have no problem understanding them, but many cannot. If desired, the user can click on CLEAR AUDIO. At this point, AI will intercept the audio and convert it into a clear AI generated English speaking voice. User can select male or female voices.
CURSOR FOLLOWER.Some presenters like to "doodle" with their cursors while thinking, and trying to follow where they are pointing and clicking is like trying to follow a mosquito around the room. We adress this problem with the following actions. First, the user pauses the video when the presenter's pointer is clearly visible. They then take their cursor and click on top of the presenter's pointer. This does several things. It indicates to the app the beginning location of the follow. It lets the app know the size and luminosity of the pointer, and it highlights the pointer in a bright color to make it easier to see, and it creates a bright circular marker around the pointer. When play is resumed, it is not necessary to follow the pointer at all times, but when it stops, indicating a liklihood that the presenter is clicking somewhere, the marker jumps to that location, making it easier for the user to follow the progression of the presentation. To be clear, the marker does not move with thee presenter's pointer, but, instead, jumps from stop to stop.
QUESTIONS. The user should be able to pause the video and ask questions of the video, which AI will answer. i.e. "I didn't understand that. Can you explain a bit more?"
TRANSLATION. Many users will not be native English speakers, therefore the tutorial should be available as a real-time audio translation into at least ten of the most commonly used languages world wide, more if feasable. Also, some videos are only available in a foreign language. We should provide the translation to listen in English.